HACKATHON_SUBMISSION.md, before:

# GRAIL HUNTER — Hackathon Submission Handoff

**Competition**: Gemini 3 API Hackathon (gemini3.devpost.com)
**Deadline**: February 9, 2026 at 5:00 PM PT
**Prize Pool**: $100,000 ($50K grand prize)

---

## SUBMISSION CHECKLIST

- [ ] **Record 3-min demo video** → Upload to YouTube (unlisted OK)
- [ ] **Submit on DevPost** → gemini3.devpost.com
- [ ] **Test production URL on mobile** → verify camera scan works
- [ ] **Verify Deployment Protection is OFF** → Vercel Dashboard > Settings > Deployment Protection

---

## LINKS (copy-paste ready)

| Item | URL |
|------|-----|
| **Live Demo** | https://grail-hunter-lite-claremont2542-2062s-projects.vercel.app |
| **Public Repo** | https://github.com/redact22/grail-hunter-lite |
| **DevPost** | https://gemini3.devpost.com |

---

## DEVPOST DESCRIPTION (~200 words — copy-paste ready)

GRAIL HUNTER is a forensic authentication scanner for vintage fashion, built on 5 distinct Gemini APIs.

How it works: Point your camera at any thrift store find. The AI runs a 4-phase forensic analysis — Visual Thought Signature, Taxonomy, Market Delta, and Authentication Verdict — then delivers a structured report with confidence score, era dating, material composition, red flags, and estimated market value.

Gemini 3 integration is central to the experience:

- Vision + Extended Thinking (gemini-3-flash-preview): The core scan uses thinkingLevel: high with structured output to produce forensic-grade authentication reports from a single image.
- Search Grounding (gemini-3-flash-preview): The Intel tab answers vintage fashion questions backed by real-time Google Search results.
- Maps Grounding (gemini-2.5-flash): Discovers nearby vintage/thrift stores using location-aware search.
- Text-to-Speech (gemini-2.5-flash-preview-tts): Generates spoken audio briefings of scan results using the Kore voice.
- Veo 3.1: Creates cinematic product reels for social sharing.

Real forensic data: The RN/WPL Dating module uses actual FTC Registration Numbers to date garments. 68 tests. Zero external dependencies beyond React + Gemini SDK. Fully functional in simulation mode without an API key.

---

## DEMO SCRIPT (3 minutes)

### 0:00-0:20 — Hook (Splash Screen)
- Open the app → cinematic boot sequence plays
- "GRAIL HUNTER — Forensic Authentication"
- Tap "ENTER THE VAULT"

### 0:20-1:00 — Core Scan (Vision API)
- Tap the camera button on the Scan tab
- Take a photo of a vintage item (use one of the 3 demo images)
- Watch the ScannerHUD show 5 forensic phases
- ForensicReportPanel slides up with full results:
  - Confidence Ring (animated SVG)
  - Reasoning Chain (4 phases)
  - Material Composition bars
  - Red flags (if any)
  - Market value estimate

### 1:00-1:30 — RN Dating + Badges
- Scroll down to RN Lookup Card
- Type "14806" → shows "Carhartt, est. 1959"
- Badge unlock animation plays ("First Scan" badge)
- Scroll to Badge Gallery showing earned/locked badges

### 1:30-2:00 — Intel Chat (Search Grounding)
- Switch to Intel tab
- Ask: "What's the resale value of a vintage Carhartt Detroit Jacket?"
- AI responds with real market data from Google Search
- Show grounding source links

### 2:00-2:30 — Nearby Stores (Maps Grounding)
- Switch to Map tab
- Allow location → Maps-grounded vintage store results appear
- Show store names, addresses, map links

### 2:30-2:50 — Market Tab
- Switch to Market tab → ticker shows trending items
- Tap a listing → DetailModal with condition slider, price chart
- Show favorites (heart toggle)

### 2:50-3:00 — Close
- Return to Scan tab → show "5 Gemini APIs" badge in header
- "Five Gemini APIs. One vintage authentication app. Grail Hunter."

---

## DEMO IMAGES (prepare these)

You need 3 images to demo with. Suggestions:
1. **Authentic vintage** — A real vintage jacket or tee with visible labels/tags
2. **Modern item** — Something current to show AI can distinguish eras
3. **High-value grail** — A rare/collectible piece (or photo of one)

If you don't have items handy, photograph printed images of:
- Vintage Carhartt Detroit Jacket
- Nike Air Jordan 1 (1985 OG vs modern retro)
- Vintage Levi's 501 with Big E tab

---

## JUDGING CRITERIA (optimize for these)

| Criteria | Weight | Our Strengths |
|----------|--------|---------------|
| **Technical Execution** | 40% | 5 APIs, structured output, extended thinking, 68 tests, TypeScript strict |
| **Innovation / Wow Factor** | 30% | Real FTC RN dating, forensic reasoning chain, cinematic UI, badge gamification |
| **Potential Impact** | 20% | $50B+ resale market, authentication fraud is real problem, thrift store use case |
| **Presentation / Demo** | 10% | Cinematic splash, animated confidence ring, terminal aesthetic |

---

## TECHNICAL STATS (for description/video)

- **5 Gemini APIs** across 3 models
- **gemini-3-flash-preview** — Vision, Chat, Search Grounding
- **gemini-2.5-flash** — Maps Grounding
- **gemini-2.5-flash-preview-tts** — Text-to-Speech (Kore voice)
- **veo-3.1-fast-generate-preview** — Video generation
- **68 tests** | 13 test files
- **322KB bundle** (98KB gzip) — no bloat
- **17 components** | 3 custom hooks | 3 data modules
- **Simulation fallback** — works without API key
- **RN Dating formula**: `year = 1959 + floor((RN - 13670) / 2635)`
- **Nuclear Era range**: RN 00101-04086 → 1952-1959

---

## MONOREPO ↔ STANDALONE MAPPING

| Monorepo (private) | Standalone (public) |
|---------------------|---------------------|
| `mini-appz/Mini-Apps` | `redact22/grail-hunter-lite` |
| `apps/grail-hunter-lite/` | `/` (repo root) |
| `@mini-apps/sdk` imports | `src/lib/safe-storage.ts` + `src/lib/ErrorBoundary.tsx` |
| `workspace:*` dep | removed — fully self-contained |
| 562KB bundle | 322KB bundle (no SDK overhead) |

---

## IF SOMETHING BREAKS

### Production URL returns 401
→ Vercel Dashboard > Project Settings > Deployment Protection > set to "None" or "Standard"

### Camera doesn't work on mobile
→ Must be HTTPS (Vercel handles this). Check browser permissions for camera.

### API calls fail in production
→ API key is baked into the client bundle at build time (VITE_ prefix).
→ If key expired: update `.env`, rebuild, redeploy with `vercel deploy --prebuilt --prod`

### Scan takes too long
→ Extended thinking (thinkingLevel: high) can take 15-45s. The 45s timeout will trigger fallback simulation data. This is by design — mention it in the demo as "thinking signature."

---

## QUICK COMMANDS

```bash
# Standalone repo
cd ~/grail-hunter-lite
npm run dev          # Dev server
npm test             # 68 tests
npm run build        # Production build

# Monorepo (internal)
cd ~/Mini-apps/apps/grail-hunter-lite
pnpm run dev         # Dev server (uses SDK)
pnpm vitest run      # Tests
pnpm run build       # Production build

# Deploy to Vercel (from monorepo)
cd ~/Mini-apps/apps/grail-hunter-lite
pnpm run build
rm -rf .vercel/output && mkdir -p .vercel/output/static
cp -r dist/* .vercel/output/static/
echo '{"version":3,"routes":[{"handle":"filesystem"},{"src":"/(.*)","dest":"/index.html"}]}' > .vercel/output/config.json
vercel deploy --prebuilt --prod
```

---

*Last updated: February 8, 2026 — Session 14*

Commit message:

Add mandatory eligibility gate to submission checklist (#15)

HACKATHON_SUBMISSION.md, after:

# GRAIL HUNTER — Hackathon Submission Handoff

**Competition**: Gemini 3 API Hackathon (gemini3.devpost.com)
**Deadline**: February 9, 2026 at 5:00 PM PT
**Prize Pool**: $100,000 ($50K grand prize)

---

## SUBMISSION CHECKLIST

- [ ] **Eligibility Gate (mandatory, confirm before submitting)**
  - [ ] I am of legal age to participate in my jurisdiction.
  - [ ] I am not in a restricted residency/sanctioned region per contest rules.
  - [ ] I have no ineligible affiliations listed by the contest rules.
  - [ ] If submitting as a team: all team members are added in Devpost Project Members and each member is individually eligible.
- [ ] **Record 3-min demo video** → Upload to YouTube (unlisted OK)
- [ ] **Submit on DevPost** → gemini3.devpost.com
- [ ] **Test production URL on mobile** → verify camera scan works
- [ ] **Verify Deployment Protection is OFF** → Vercel Dashboard > Settings > Deployment Protection

---

## LINKS (copy-paste ready)

| Item | URL |
|------|-----|
| **Live Demo** | https://grail-hunter-lite-claremont2542-2062s-projects.vercel.app |
| **Public Repo** | https://github.com/redact22/grail-hunter-lite |
| **DevPost** | https://gemini3.devpost.com |

---

## DEVPOST DESCRIPTION (~200 words — copy-paste ready)

GRAIL HUNTER is a forensic authentication scanner for vintage fashion, built on 5 distinct Gemini APIs.

How it works: Point your camera at any thrift store find. The AI runs a 4-phase forensic analysis — Visual Thought Signature, Taxonomy, Market Delta, and Authentication Verdict — then delivers a structured report with confidence score, era dating, material composition, red flags, and estimated market value.

Gemini 3 integration is central to the experience:

- Vision + Extended Thinking (gemini-3-flash-preview): The core scan uses thinkingLevel: high with structured output to produce forensic-grade authentication reports from a single image.
- Search Grounding (gemini-3-flash-preview): The Intel tab answers vintage fashion questions backed by real-time Google Search results.
- Maps Grounding (gemini-2.5-flash): Discovers nearby vintage/thrift stores using location-aware search.
- Text-to-Speech (gemini-2.5-flash-preview-tts): Generates spoken audio briefings of scan results using the Kore voice.
- Veo 3.1: Creates cinematic product reels for social sharing.

Real forensic data: The RN/WPL Dating module uses actual FTC Registration Numbers to date garments. 68 tests. Zero external dependencies beyond React + Gemini SDK. Fully functional in simulation mode without an API key.

---

## DEMO SCRIPT (3 minutes)

### 0:00-0:20 — Hook (Splash Screen)
- Open the app → cinematic boot sequence plays
- "GRAIL HUNTER — Forensic Authentication"
- Tap "ENTER THE VAULT"

### 0:20-1:00 — Core Scan (Vision API)
- Tap the camera button on the Scan tab
- Take a photo of a vintage item (use one of the 3 demo images)
- Watch the ScannerHUD show 5 forensic phases
- ForensicReportPanel slides up with full results:
  - Confidence Ring (animated SVG)
  - Reasoning Chain (4 phases)
  - Material Composition bars
  - Red flags (if any)
  - Market value estimate

### 1:00-1:30 — RN Dating + Badges
- Scroll down to RN Lookup Card
- Type "14806" → shows "Carhartt, est. 1959"
- Badge unlock animation plays ("First Scan" badge)
- Scroll to Badge Gallery showing earned/locked badges

### 1:30-2:00 — Intel Chat (Search Grounding)
- Switch to Intel tab
- Ask: "What's the resale value of a vintage Carhartt Detroit Jacket?"
- AI responds with real market data from Google Search
- Show grounding source links

### 2:00-2:30 — Nearby Stores (Maps Grounding)
- Switch to Map tab
- Allow location → Maps-grounded vintage store results appear
- Show store names, addresses, map links

### 2:30-2:50 — Market Tab
- Switch to Market tab → ticker shows trending items
- Tap a listing → DetailModal with condition slider, price chart
- Show favorites (heart toggle)

### 2:50-3:00 — Close
- Return to Scan tab → show "5 Gemini APIs" badge in header
- "Five Gemini APIs. One vintage authentication app. Grail Hunter."

---

## DEMO IMAGES (prepare these)

You need 3 images to demo with. Suggestions:
1. **Authentic vintage** — A real vintage jacket or tee with visible labels/tags
2. **Modern item** — Something current to show AI can distinguish eras
3. **High-value grail** — A rare/collectible piece (or photo of one)

If you don't have items handy, photograph printed images of:
- Vintage Carhartt Detroit Jacket
- Nike Air Jordan 1 (1985 OG vs modern retro)
- Vintage Levi's 501 with Big E tab

---

## JUDGING CRITERIA (optimize for these)

| Criteria | Weight | Our Strengths |
|----------|--------|---------------|
| **Technical Execution** | 40% | 5 APIs, structured output, extended thinking, 68 tests, TypeScript strict |
| **Innovation / Wow Factor** | 30% | Real FTC RN dating, forensic reasoning chain, cinematic UI, badge gamification |
| **Potential Impact** | 20% | $50B+ resale market, authentication fraud is real problem, thrift store use case |
| **Presentation / Demo** | 10% | Cinematic splash, animated confidence ring, terminal aesthetic |

---

## TECHNICAL STATS (for description/video)

- **5 Gemini APIs** across 3 models
- **gemini-3-flash-preview** — Vision, Chat, Search Grounding
- **gemini-2.5-flash** — Maps Grounding
- **gemini-2.5-flash-preview-tts** — Text-to-Speech (Kore voice)
- **veo-3.1-fast-generate-preview** — Video generation
- **68 tests** | 13 test files
- **322KB bundle** (98KB gzip) — no bloat
- **17 components** | 3 custom hooks | 3 data modules
- **Simulation fallback** — works without API key
- **RN Dating formula**: `year = 1959 + floor((RN - 13670) / 2635)`
- **Nuclear Era range**: RN 00101-04086 → 1952-1959

---

## MONOREPO ↔ STANDALONE MAPPING

| Monorepo (private) | Standalone (public) |
|---------------------|---------------------|
| `mini-appz/Mini-Apps` | `redact22/grail-hunter-lite` |
| `apps/grail-hunter-lite/` | `/` (repo root) |
| `@mini-apps/sdk` imports | `src/lib/safe-storage.ts` + `src/lib/ErrorBoundary.tsx` |
| `workspace:*` dep | removed — fully self-contained |
| 562KB bundle | 322KB bundle (no SDK overhead) |

---

## IF SOMETHING BREAKS

### Production URL returns 401
→ Vercel Dashboard > Project Settings > Deployment Protection > set to "None" or "Standard"

### Camera doesn't work on mobile
→ Must be HTTPS (Vercel handles this). Check browser permissions for camera.

### API calls fail in production
→ API key is baked into the client bundle at build time (VITE_ prefix).
→ If key expired: update `.env`, rebuild, redeploy with `vercel deploy --prebuilt --prod`

### Scan takes too long
→ Extended thinking (thinkingLevel: high) can take 15-45s. The 45s timeout will trigger fallback simulation data. This is by design — mention it in the demo as "thinking signature."

---

## QUICK COMMANDS

```bash
# Standalone repo
cd ~/grail-hunter-lite
npm run dev          # Dev server
npm test             # 68 tests
npm run build        # Production build

# Monorepo (internal)
cd ~/Mini-apps/apps/grail-hunter-lite
pnpm run dev         # Dev server (uses SDK)
pnpm vitest run      # Tests
pnpm run build       # Production build

# Deploy to Vercel (from monorepo)
cd ~/Mini-apps/apps/grail-hunter-lite
pnpm run build
rm -rf .vercel/output && mkdir -p .vercel/output/static
cp -r dist/* .vercel/output/static/
echo '{"version":3,"routes":[{"handle":"filesystem"},{"src":"/(.*)","dest":"/index.html"}]}' > .vercel/output/config.json
vercel deploy --prebuilt --prod
```

---

*Last updated: February 8, 2026 — Session 14*
